This repository hosts the code and resources of my Master's thesis project titled: "Comparison of machine learning algorithms effectiveness based on transcriptomic data". The thesis was successfully defended on February 29, 2024.

Abstract:
This thesis investigates the comparative analysis of feature selection methods of the most informative genes based on microarray data. The research was carried out using three publicly available multiclass datasets containing from 12,000 to over 49,000 genes, characterized by significant imbalance between classes. Feature selection analysis included filter methods, embedded methods, and hybrid methods using wrapper algorithms. For filtering and embedded methods, the impact of the number of selected genes on model performance was examined. In the case of hybrid methods, the influence of wrapper algorithms on model performance was investigated using subsets previously selected by filtering and embedded methods. Based on the results obtained, it was found that filtering approaches require larger number of genes than embedded approaches to achieve equally high model performance. It was demonstrated that the use of wrapper algorithms in hybrid methods, based on previously selected subsets using filtering methods, allows for an increase in model performance while limiting the subset size. On the other hand, hybrid methods based on subsets selected using embedded methods result in a significant reduction in the number of selected genes while maintaining model performance at the same level as individual embedded methods. Additionally, to determine optimal values, both the parameters of embedded methods and wrapper algorithms used in hybrid methods were analyzed. Based on the achieved results, it was confirmed that obtaining optimal parameter values for a specific dataset is possible, but this process requires checking a very large number of solution combinations. 
